# Module 4: Server Configuration

From your previous addition of the MicroProfile Metrics feature in the server.xml you should now see a message for a new metrics endpoint in the terminal that looks like:

```
[INFO] [AUDIT   ] CWWKT0016I: Web application available (default_host): http://localhost:9080/metrics/

```

Open the metrics endpoint in your browser. To do this select **Launch Application**, a box will appear where the port number is required. The application is running on port **9080**. The Open Liberty homepage will load. To access the **metrics** endpoint at the end of the URL type **/metrics**. The URL should look like: 
```
http://accountname-9080.theiadocker-1.proxy.cognitiveclass.ai/metrics
```
You should see a message like this:

```
Error 403: Resource must be accessed with a secure connection try again using an HTTPS connection.
```
or a **Username** and **Password** will be required

If you take a look at the server output, you should see the following error:

```
[INFO] [ERROR   ] CWWKS9113E: The SSL port is not active. The incoming http request cannot be redirected to a secure port. Check the server.xml file for configuration errors. The https port may be disabled. The keyStore element may be missing or incorrectly specified. The SSL feature may not be enabled.
```

It's one thing to configure the server to load a feature, but many Liberty features require additional configuration. You can view the complete set of Liberty features and their configuration here: https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/config/.

The error message suggests we need to add a `keyStore` and one route to solve this would be to add a `keyStore` and user registry (e.g. a `basicRegistry` for test purposes).  However, if we take a look at the configuration for [mpMetrics](https://openliberty.io/docs/ref/config/#mpMetrics.html) we can see that it has an option to turn the metrics endpoint authentication off.

Add the following below the `</featureManager>` in the `open-liberty-masterclass/start/coffee-shop/src/main/liberty/config/server.xml`.

```XML
    <mpMetrics authentication="false" />
```
{: codeblock}

Start the server and visit the metrics endpoint:

`http://localhost:9080/metrics/`

You should see a number of metrics automatically generated by the JVM:

```
TYPE base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count counter
# HELP base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count Displays the total number of classes that have been loaded since the Java virtual machine has started execution.
base:classloader_total_loaded_class_count 10616
...
```
This doesn't contain the metrics you added because the service hasn't been called and so no application metrics have been recorded. 

Open a new terminal and use curl to `POST` some json to the application in order to generate some metrics by brewing a coffee.

```
curl --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --request POST \
  --data '{"type": "ESPRESSO"}' \
  http://localhost:9081/barista/resources/brews
```

Reload the metrics page and at the bottom of the metrics results you should see:

```
...
# TYPE application:com_sebastian_daschner_coffee_shop_boundary_orders_resource_order counter
# HELP application:com_sebastian_daschner_coffee_shop_boundary_orders_resource_order Number of times orders requested.
application:com_sebastian_daschner_coffee_shop_boundary_orders_resource_order 3
```
Now go to the terminal and type `q` followed by `Enter` to shut down the server.

# Next Steps

Congratulations on completing your next exercise. Don't stop now. Move on to the next module in the master class by simply closing this tab and clicking on the next module in the Open Liberty Masterclass landing page.
